---
title: A question I hope to answer
date: 2019-04-11 00:00:00
description: "Lately I've been so focussed on How that I'm not taking enough time to stop and ask Why."
slug: why
tags: life, design
length: 6 minute read
---

Last week we went to a warm place, a much needed break from reality for all three of us. For this trip I took only one book with me: _[The Shape of Design](https://frankchimero.com/design/the-shape-of-design)_ by Frank Chimero. I was hoping to rekindle my creativity and get my head out of the code a bit.

The first essay really struck a chord with me this time through and I thought it was relevant to the purpose of this writing project. The essay is titled _[How and Why](https://shapeofdesignbook.com/chapters/01-how-and-why/)_ (and can be read for free at by following the link).

To give this story a little more context, I have a three year old daughter. I'm pretty sure the most common word that comes out of her mouth currently is "why." Why is that bird flying? Why can't I pet this stray cat that lives on a beach? Why can't I eat this thing I found on the floor? All of which are good questions I suppose..

But the was one key concept in that essay that really crystallized for me with this latest reading was this:

> **How enables but Why motivates**, and the space between the two could be described by the gap of enthusiasm between simply understanding phonics and reading a book that one identifies with and loves.

When my daughter asks _Why_, she isn't asking _How_. She isn't looking to neccesarily understand how a bird flys. What she ultimately wants to know is why she should care.

I think this exactly what I need to do more of in my life/career. Lately I've been so focussed on _How_ that I'm not taking enough time to stop and ask _Why_.

Maybe it isn't enough to understand how to speak Javascript, Vue, React, Angular, Ruby, Rails, french, etc. Why do I need all of these tools? Why do I spend some of my evenings learning these things?

Why should I care?

I'm hoping to find some of these answers through by writing. And, for my daughter, I am going to try to be a little more patient with the question of 'Why?'.
